# v3 dist design: Cloud Native Line-of-Business Server

This is the LOB Server Runtime.

There will be another system that "compiles" an application to this format.

## Basic Setup

 1. Register one consumer for a type.
 2. Register a producer typed name.
 3. Register an instance name of a producer.
 4. Send all producer types and instances to the consumer.
 5. Allow consumer to contact the producer type node or instance node.
 6. For load balancing, there may be multiple consumer instances.

## Use cases

 * HTTP Router
  - Consume URL Routes
  - Forward a request to a producer of the name along with the instance configuration.
  - Return the response, translating the gRPC call back to HTTP.
 * Asset Manager
  - Return assets (HTML templates, images, client JS and JSON).
  - A URL route may then in turn request an asset. Asset may be from a different node.
 * Query Manager
  - Consumer takes SQL-like queries and sends them to the database engine and pools connections.
  - An instance will could provide the database DSN in the configuration.
  - The application will refer to the instance name.
 * Application Procedure
  - A special URL is used for all application specific "procedures",
    applies authorization controls to all calls.
  - The consumer is also a URL type.
  - Producers may be in different executables.
 * Configuration Verification
  - The consumer is the central configuration provider.
  - Producer are consumers of other types.
  - When a new configuration is loaded the configuration can be sent to verify it.
 * Authentication Server
  - Consumer provides authentication services.
  - Used by application configuration and router definition.
 * Application
  - Bind to one or more host names.
  - Collect one or more resource instances.
  - Specify the authentication server.

## Versions

 * Each incoming request or job is pinned to a specific version.
 * The specific version in the request should be used to discover the consistent configuration.

## Database Transactions

 * Each incoming request has a unique ID created for it.
 * When a new database transaction starts, the query engine associates that unique request ID with the transaction.
 * All queries with the same unique request ID uses the same transaction.
 * The DB doesn't commit the transaction until it has all the buffered responses.
 * Certain messages (such as writing an error condition) may request an single-commit transaction that doesn't use the request ID transaction.



# Next version

 1. Service starts up, registers self with etcd.
   - example-1.solidcoredata.org/service/<version>/<ip> -> metadata.
 2. Each service has a name and revision (VCS hash).
 3. Each service also registers what services it does.
 4. Also list under consumer:
   - solidcoredata.org/consumer/solidcoredata.org/resource/auth
   - solidcoredata.org/consumer/example-1.solidcoredata.org/resource/proc
   - solidcoredata.org/resource/auth/<ip>
   - example-1.solidcoredata.org/resource/proc/<ip>
 5. Applications set a specific application data area.
   - solidcoredata.org/app/<name> (name=example-1.solidcoredata.org) -> version(s) to create and send to.
   - example-1.solidcoredata.org
 6. Application configuration is the real "application". Could be embedded and registered with an application.
 7. An extension of this idea is to watch the configuration for referenced services that aren't running, 
    compile the services from source (or find container), and launch them as needed, then remove them When
	they are not referenced anymore.
	 - Such a service could also watch version control / image repository. If a configuartion references a tag or branch (such as master)
	   that is updated, it is automatically ran.

```
// Register service (lease): version, IP, consumers, resources
// Register application version configurations (lease optional).
// Register specific application to version (lease optional).

type NameVersion {
	Name string // example-1.solidcoredata.org
	Version string // abc123024ddsa or 1.2.3
}

type Resource struct {
	Name string // "proc"
	Kind string // solidcoredata.org/resource/url
	Consume string // solidcoredata.org/resource/proc
	
	Parent string // Type of resource instance.
	Include []string // Bring in these included resources as well.
	Config []byte
}

type Service struct {
	NameVersion

	Resources []Resource
}

type ApplicationVersion struct {
	NameVersion
	
	Uses []NameVersion // Matches the service name with the version to use.

	Resources []Resource
}

type Login struct {
	Percent float64
	LoginState string // solidcoredata.org/auth/none or solidcoredata.org/auth/granted
	Prefix string // "login" or "app"
	ConsumeRedirect bool
	Resource NameVersion // In the future allow specifying multiple Resources for A/B, blue-green, canary releases.
}
	
type Application struct {
	Authentication string
	Host []string
	Login []Login
}

type Registry interface {
	NewLease(ctx context.Context, ttl time.Duration) (lease string, err error)
	UpdateLease(ctx context.Context, lease string) error
	DeleteLease(ctx context.Context, lease string)
	
	Begin(ctx context.Context) (RegistryTx, error)
	
	// WatchService blocks until ctx is canceled.
	WatchService(ctx context.Context, chan []Service) error
}

type RegistryTx interface {
	Commit(ctx context.Context) error
	Abort()
	
	// Lease required
	SetService(lease int64, svc Service) error
	
	// Lease optional
	SetApplicationVersion(lease int64, appver ApplicationVersion) error
	
	// Lease optional
	SetApplication(lease int64, app Application) error
}

```

Each service that needs information pulls this and resolves the dependencies
independently. At load time process configuartions and init anything needed.
When a request comes it, ref application and service name:version to lookup
configured instance.

On Load
 * Router 1 loads that it consumes url resources and looks for updates to url resources.
 * Router 2 loads that it consumes url resources and looks for updates to url resources.
 * Auth 1 loads that it consumes auth requests and looks for auth configuartions.
 * Service 1 loads that it produces url resouces.
 * app 1 loads it configures resources and sets up an application.
 * Once loaded services make gRPC round robin connections to all connected services.

On Request
 * The router notes which application it is for and routes it to the correct service.
 * The handling service uses the application name:version and service name:version
     to determine which configured instance should handle the request.

## Future

In the future be able to still route requests to application components that
are alive and fail with a useful message for parts of the application that
are down or not available. Attempt to enable this property in this version.
